README.md, before:

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e857b10d-693a-4a57-b843-701848a81718)

# Corev-CLI

A minimal, open-source CLI tool for managing dynamic configuration repositories, with a focus on JSON files, on a per-project basis — and a proof-of-concept implementation of the [Internet-Draft on JSON-Based Dynamic Configuration Management](https://www.ietf.org/staging/draft-abaris-json-based-dynamic-config-management-00.txt). It is built to pull, push, diff, and list config files across distributed environments, and is ideal for systems where configurations are dynamic and need to be easily maintainable, versioned, and auditable.

[![Product Hunt](https://api.producthunt.com/widgets/embed-image/v1/product_review.svg?product_id=1054790&theme=dark)](https://www.producthunt.com/products/corev-cli/reviews)

## Prerequisites

> Corev-CLI is not a "plug-and-play" tool. It only works if there’s an API that follows the [API specification](#api-specification).  
It uses this API to `pull` and `push` config files. Without it, the CLI does nothing.

## Installation

```bash
npm i -g @corev/cli
```

## Available commands

Corev-CLI provides a small set of core commands to help you get things done. Files are stored in the `configs/` folder for quick and offline access.

| Action              | Description                                           |
|---------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| `init`              | Set the API endpoint used by the CLI                  |
| `pull`              | Fetch the latest config for a project                 |
| `push`              | Upload a local config file to the server              |
| `diff`              | Show differences between two config versions          |
| `list`              | List all available config versions by filename        |

## Quick start

### 1. Initialize once:

```bash
corev init --api http://localhost:3000
```

This saves your API endpoint to `configs/.corevrc.json`.

### 2. Pull latest config for a project:

```bash
corev pull <project>
```

### 3. Push local config file:

```bash
corev push configs/atlas@1.0.1.json
```

### 4. Diff two config files:

```bash
corev diff configs/atlas@1.0.0.json configs/atlas@1.0.1.json
```

### 5. List versions (based on filenames):

```bash
corev list
```

## API specification

### HTTP mapping
> Implementers SHOULD provide the endpoints listed below so Corev-CLI can perform `pull` and `push` operations correctly.

| HTTP Method | Endpoint URL               | Description                            |
|-------------|----------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| GET         | `/configs/:project/latest` | Returns the latest configuration       |
| POST        | `/configs/:project`        | Uploads a new or updated configuration |

### File naming

All configuration files SHOULD follow the naming convention below:

```
<project>@<version>.json
```

Example:

```
configs/atlas@1.0.0.json
```

### JSON schema

Every configuration file SHOULD conform to the JSON schema below, which precisely defines the required structure and fields:

```json
{
	"type": "object",
	"properties": {
		"name": {
			"type": "string"
		},
		"version": {
			"type": "string"
		},
		"config": {
			"type": "object",
			"additionalProperties": true
		}
	},
	"required": ["name", "version", "config"],
	"additionalProperties": false
}
```

### API contract (Recommended)
> Sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 below describe a recommended API contract for compatibility with Corev-CLI. The specification is divided into two main parts: the methods (belonging to the `ConfigService` interface) and the dictionaries (`Configuration` and `UploadResponse`).

#### 1 The `getLatestConfig()` method

Belongs to the **Corev ConfigService conformance class**.  
Expects a single argument, `projectName`, which identifies the project. It returns a promise that resolves with a `Configuration` object containing the latest configuration for that project.

```webidl
partial interface ConfigService {
  Promise<Configuration> getLatestConfig(DOMString projectName);
};
```

**Behavior:**
- When this method is invoked, the implementation MUST retrieve the latest configuration from storage (or memory) and return it as a `Configuration` object.
- If the project is not found, the promise SHOULD reject with an appropriate error.

#### 2 The `uploadConfig()` method

Belongs to the **Corev ConfigService conformance class**.  
Expects two arguments:
1. `projectName` — a DOMString specifying the project.
2. `config` — a `Configuration` object to be stored or updated.

```webidl
partial interface ConfigService {
  Promise<UploadResponse> uploadConfig(DOMString projectName, Configuration config);
};
```

**Behavior:**
- When this method is invoked, the implementation MUST store or update the configuration for the specified project, then return an `UploadResponse` indicating success or error.
- If a duplicate or lower version of a configuration is not allowed by policy, this method SHOULD reject with a `409 Conflict`-like error or return an appropriate error response in the `UploadResponse`.

#### 3 The `Configuration` dictionary

Represents the structure of a project configuration object.

```webidl
dictionary Configuration {
  required DOMString name;      // Project name (e.g., "atlas")
  required DOMString version;   // Version string (e.g., "1.0.0")
  required any config;          // JSON object with configuration data
};
```

**Usage notes:**
- `name` typically matches the project identifier (e.g., "atlas").
- `version` can be any string representing a version (e.g., "1.0.0", "2025.04.13-alpha", etc.).
- `config` is an arbitrary JSON-like structure containing key-value pairs relevant to the configuration.

#### 4 The `UploadResponse` dictionary

Defines the response returned after a successful (or failed) configuration upload.

```webidl
dictionary UploadResponse {
  required DOMString status;    // "success" or "error"
  DOMString? message;           // Optional message with details
};
```

**Usage notes:**
- `status` MUST be either `"success"` or `"error"`.
- `message` MAY be provided to give further context, such as error details or confirmations.

## Testing

Start the mock API:

```bash
node tests/mock-api.mjs
```

Then run CLI commands while targeting `http://localhost:3000`.

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for contribution guidelines.

## License

This package is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Introduce 'revert' command and shared 'Configuration' type
* Add 'revert' command to re-push older configuration versions
* Create 'src/types.ts' with shared 'Configuration' interface
* Apply 'Configuration' type to push, pull, and revert commands
* Update CLI help and README with 'revert' command usage
* Refactor configService.saveConfig() to accept typed input
* Add integration test for 'revert' command functionality

README.md, after:

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e857b10d-693a-4a57-b843-701848a81718)

# Corev-CLI

A minimal, open-source CLI tool for managing dynamic configuration repositories, with a focus on JSON files, on a per-project basis — and a proof-of-concept implementation of the [Internet-Draft on JSON-Based Dynamic Configuration Management](https://www.ietf.org/staging/draft-abaris-json-based-dynamic-config-management-00.txt). It is built to pull, push, diff, and list config files across distributed environments, and is ideal for systems where configurations are dynamic and need to be easily maintainable, versioned, and auditable.

[![Product Hunt](https://api.producthunt.com/widgets/embed-image/v1/product_review.svg?product_id=1054790&theme=dark)](https://www.producthunt.com/products/corev-cli/reviews)

## Prerequisites

> Corev-CLI is not a "plug-and-play" tool. It only works if there’s an API that follows the [API specification](#api-specification).  
It uses this API to `pull` and `push` config files. Without it, the CLI does nothing.

## Installation

```bash
npm i -g @corev/cli
```

## Available commands

Corev-CLI provides a small set of core commands to help you get things done. Files are stored in the `configs/` folder for quick and offline access.

| Action   | Description                                           |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| `init`   | Set the API endpoint used by the CLI                  |
| `pull`   | Fetch the latest config for a project                 |
| `push`   | Upload a local config file to the server              |
| `diff`   | Show differences between two config versions          |
| `list`   | List all available config versions by filename        |
| `revert` | Revert the remote configuration to a previous version |

## Quick start

### 1. Initialize once:

```bash
corev init --api http://localhost:3000
```

This saves your API endpoint to `configs/.corevrc.json`.

### 2. Pull latest config for a project:

```bash
corev pull <project>
```

### 3. Push local config file:

```bash
corev push configs/atlas@1.0.1.json
```

### 4. Diff two config files:

```bash
corev diff configs/atlas@1.0.0.json configs/atlas@1.0.1.json
```

### 5. List versions (based on filenames):

```bash
corev list
```

### 6. Revert to an older configuration:

```bash
corev revert <project> <version>
```

## API specification

### HTTP mapping
> Implementers SHOULD provide the endpoints listed below so Corev-CLI can perform `pull` and `push` operations correctly.

| HTTP Method | Endpoint URL               | Description                            |
|-------------|----------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| GET         | `/configs/:project/latest` | Returns the latest configuration       |
| POST        | `/configs/:project`        | Uploads a new or updated configuration |

### File naming

All configuration files SHOULD follow the naming convention below:

```
<project>@<version>.json
```

Example:

```
configs/atlas@1.0.0.json
```

### JSON schema

Every configuration file SHOULD conform to the JSON schema below, which precisely defines the required structure and fields:

```json
{
	"type": "object",
	"properties": {
		"name": {
			"type": "string"
		},
		"version": {
			"type": "string"
		},
		"config": {
			"type": "object",
			"additionalProperties": true
		}
	},
	"required": ["name", "version", "config"],
	"additionalProperties": false
}
```

### API contract (Recommended)
> Sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 below describe a recommended API contract for compatibility with Corev-CLI. The specification is divided into two main parts: the methods (belonging to the `ConfigService` interface) and the dictionaries (`Configuration` and `UploadResponse`).

#### 1 The `getLatestConfig()` method

Belongs to the **Corev ConfigService conformance class**.  
Expects a single argument, `projectName`, which identifies the project. It returns a promise that resolves with a `Configuration` object containing the latest configuration for that project.

```webidl
partial interface ConfigService {
  Promise<Configuration> getLatestConfig(DOMString projectName);
};
```

**Behavior:**
- When this method is invoked, the implementation MUST retrieve the latest configuration from storage (or memory) and return it as a `Configuration` object.
- If the project is not found, the promise SHOULD reject with an appropriate error.

#### 2 The `uploadConfig()` method

Belongs to the **Corev ConfigService conformance class**.  
Expects two arguments:
1. `projectName` — a DOMString specifying the project.
2. `config` — a `Configuration` object to be stored or updated.

```webidl
partial interface ConfigService {
  Promise<UploadResponse> uploadConfig(DOMString projectName, Configuration config);
};
```

**Behavior:**
- When this method is invoked, the implementation MUST store or update the configuration for the specified project, then return an `UploadResponse` indicating success or error.
- If a duplicate or lower version of a configuration is not allowed by policy, this method SHOULD reject with a `409 Conflict`-like error or return an appropriate error response in the `UploadResponse`.

#### 3 The `Configuration` dictionary

Represents the structure of a project configuration object.

```webidl
dictionary Configuration {
  required DOMString name;      // Project name (e.g., "atlas")
  required DOMString version;   // Version string (e.g., "1.0.0")
  required any config;          // JSON object with configuration data
};
```

**Usage notes:**
- `name` typically matches the project identifier (e.g., "atlas").
- `version` can be any string representing a version (e.g., "1.0.0", "2025.04.13-alpha", etc.).
- `config` is an arbitrary JSON-like structure containing key-value pairs relevant to the configuration.

#### 4 The `UploadResponse` dictionary

Defines the response returned after a successful (or failed) configuration upload.

```webidl
dictionary UploadResponse {
  required DOMString status;    // "success" or "error"
  DOMString? message;           // Optional message with details
};
```

**Usage notes:**
- `status` MUST be either `"success"` or `"error"`.
- `message` MAY be provided to give further context, such as error details or confirmations.

## Testing

Start the mock API:

```bash
node tests/mock-api.mjs
```

Then run CLI commands while targeting `http://localhost:3000`.

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for contribution guidelines.

## License

This package is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
